r_issue.md, before:

# R Console Issue

## Table of Contents

- [ERROR](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#error)
  - [LOCALE ERROR](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#locale-error)
- [WARNING](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#warning)
  - [Warning message: package 'ggplot'](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#warning-message-package-ggplot)

---

## ERROR

### LOCALE ERROR

The errors on **Mac Sierra** are:

```
During startup - Warning messages:
1: Setting LC_CTYPE failed, using "C"
2: Setting LC_COLLATE failed, using "C"
3: Setting LC_TIME failed, using "C"
4: Setting LC_MESSAGES failed, using "C"
5: Setting LC_PAPER failed, using "C"
```

**Solve:**

1. Open Terminal

2. Write or paste in:

   `defaults write org.R-project.R force.LANG en_US.UTF-8`

3. Close Terminal

4. Start R

Reference: [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9689104/installing-r-on-mac-warning-messages-setting-lc-ctype-failed-using-c)

**Check:**

```R
> Sys.getlocale()
[1] "en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/C/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8"
> print("안녕")
[1] "안녕"
> print("hello")
[1] "hello"
```

> If you want to set your locale to `ko_KR.UTF-8`, write the code below:
>
> `Sys.setlocale('LC_ALL', 'ko_KR.UTF-8')`

## WARNING

### Warning message: package 'ggplot'

```
library(ggplot2)
Warning message:
package ‘ggplot2’ was built under R version 3.4.4 
```

**Solve:**

My current version of R is older than current version on [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/). R has been updated 3.5.1 on 2nd July 2018, so you should update it when you have a chance.

1. Run the R Console
2. Check for R updates
3. Visit [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/)

![ggplot_warning_solution](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_solution.png)

4. Re-install the [R-3.5.1.pkg](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/R-3.5.1.pkg)

![ggplot_warning_CRAN](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_CRAN.png)

5. Check your version of R is up to date

![ggplot_warning_solved](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_solved.png)

**Note:**

This warning can NOT be solved by updating RStudio like the screenshots below.

![ggplot_warning_solve_1](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_note.png)

This update DOES NOT UPDATE your version of R, so you should update R via [**HERE**](https://stat.ethz.ch/pipermail/r-help/2018-March/451633.html).

Commit message:

update the pipe operator issue in the 'dplyr' package

r_issue.md, after:

# R Console Issue

## Table of Contents

- [ERROR](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#error)
  - [LOCALE ERROR](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#locale-error)
- [WARNING](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#warning)
  - [Warning message: package 'ggplot'](https://github.com/jeongwhanchoi/Data-Analysis-with-R/blob/master/r_issue.md#warning-message-package-ggplot)

---

## ERROR

### LOCALE ERROR

The errors on **Mac Sierra** are:

```
During startup - Warning messages:
1: Setting LC_CTYPE failed, using "C"
2: Setting LC_COLLATE failed, using "C"
3: Setting LC_TIME failed, using "C"
4: Setting LC_MESSAGES failed, using "C"
5: Setting LC_PAPER failed, using "C"
```

**Solve:**

1. Open Terminal

2. Write or paste in:

   `defaults write org.R-project.R force.LANG en_US.UTF-8`

3. Close Terminal

4. Start R

Reference: [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9689104/installing-r-on-mac-warning-messages-setting-lc-ctype-failed-using-c)

**Check:**

```R
> Sys.getlocale()
[1] "en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/C/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8"
> print("안녕")
[1] "안녕"
> print("hello")
[1] "hello"
```

> If you want to set your locale to `ko_KR.UTF-8`, write the code below:
>
> `Sys.setlocale('LC_ALL', 'ko_KR.UTF-8')`



### Pipe Operator Error in dplyr

![pipe_operator](./img_issue/pipe_operator.png)

```
could not find function "%.%"
```

**Solve:**

Please note that in newer versions of dplyr (0.3.x+), the syntax `%.%` has been deprecated and replaced with `%>%`.



## WARNING

### Warning message: package 'ggplot'

```
library(ggplot2)
Warning message:
package ‘ggplot2’ was built under R version 3.4.4 
```

**Solve:**

My current version of R is older than current version on [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/). R has been updated 3.5.1 on 2nd July 2018, so you should update it when you have a chance.

1. Run the R Console
2. Check for R updates
3. Visit [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/)

![ggplot_warning_solution](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_solution.png)

4. Re-install the [R-3.5.1.pkg](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/macosx/R-3.5.1.pkg)

![ggplot_warning_CRAN](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_CRAN.png)

5. Check your version of R is up to date

![ggplot_warning_solved](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_solved.png)

**Note:**

This warning can NOT be solved by updating RStudio like the screenshots below.

![ggplot_warning_solve_1](./img_issue/ggplot_warning_note.png)

This update DOES NOT UPDATE your version of R, so you should update R via [**HERE**](https://stat.ethz.ch/pipermail/r-help/2018-March/451633.html).
